Disaster recovery, or DR,
refers to worst-case scenarios.
What do you do and how fast can you restore service after a major failure?
Well, RTO and RPO apply to any failure incident.
What values you can commit to for your RTO and RPO?
You need to consider these worst-case scenarios.
In a traditional data center,
this would be a complete failure of that data center.
Another example would be a major Internet outage.
How do you get your platform back online when the normal home
for your platform looks like it'll be down for some significant period?
First of all, make sure you have everything that you need.
What are those things?
Database backups, server images, your application code,
server configurations, other data repositories,
network configuration, documentation, IP whitelist.
Moving takes a lot of work and a lot of things and you can't forget anything.
If you forget something or have an old version of something,
your DR cut over may take much longer or fail completely.
Remember, not only must all of your applications and data be available to move,
but also your documentation.
There are many things that can go wrong.
Documentation is a must and will be invaluable when you are performing a DR failover.
Keep in mind, this failover may have to be run by
less experienced staff in the middle of the night under very stressful conditions.
What can you do to make it success,
not only possible but likely?
Practice. Run through every step if possible and make
sure that the documentation is actually reflective of your platform.
Practice until you get it right,
practice until you no longer have to cheat,
and go look at your current infrastructure
to make sure you've got all the pieces assembled correctly.
Practice often. Things change over time,
new features are released,
new services are utilized.
If you don't practice frequently,
then you run the risk of realizing that you're DR documentation is out of date,
only when you're in the midst of a real DR event.
An important aspect of a DR failover that often goes overlooked is
deciding when an ongoing incident is actually bad enough to start a DR failover.
When an incident starts,
you expect that it will resolve shortly.
When it doesn't, at what point do you implement your disaster recovery plan?
The consideration is how long does it take to recover in your DR location,
and how long is your RTO? Who decides?
This is a pretty major decision that will likely have repercussions. Who makes the call?
The engineer on call,
the engineering manager, the VP, CTO, CEO?
You should establish the preferred order of decision-makers.
Make sure that it's documented and that anyone who
is on the list knows that they are on the list.
You don't want to surprise the CEO in the middle of the night and ask if you should
institute a DR failover if they don't know what that means.
There are several types of DR planning.
Cold standby means that you have all the data you need in your DR location,
but every server and database will need to be spun up in order to perform a DR recovery.
A pilot light plan would always have
a bare minimum of some of the things always in your DR environment.
This can be things like an active read replica of a database in your DR environment.
A warm standby scenario would have
the minimum amount of everything running in your DR region.
So you would have databases and perhaps
one of each server type always running in your DR region.
A hot standby would be a complete second environment running at all times,
ready to be cut over too.
Of these different types,
you must decide on the appropriate trade-off
between cost of running things in your DR region
and the cost of time spent getting
your DR region capable of handling all of your production traffic.